---
layout: post
title:  "Ideation"
date:   2020-04-06 12:14:47 +0530
categories: misc
---

A number of times I want to build a side project but I can't choose what to make.
Or I start hacking on a new idea, lose interest mid way, and the project get's shelved.

I consider the former to be a much greater issue than the latter. To be frank, I think
losing faith in an idea that seems brilliant at some point is natural.

I try to think about this by drawing a parallel between programming and art. Programming is
a creative pursuit. Looking at a  well written project invokes the same feeling as you would
get looking at a fine piece of art.
Thinking in this model has helped me tackle some issues that I have faced when hunting for ideas
to build a side project.

I a significant amount of advice has been given regarding this problem of ideation. I have listed
some of which them that come up repeatedly:
1. Build something that you are passionate about/ interested in.
2. Build something that scratches your own itch.

Passion and interest are vague concepts and sometimes it is difficult to judge your passion or interest
for something before trying it. A lot of time's when I do the _passion_ test for an idea i.e
ask myself whether I am passionate about this, I can't really seem to answer that question.

The second advice is sound to a certain extent. Sometimes it difficult to find an itch to scratch.

There are 2 cases when you are thinking of undertaking a side project:
- You have a problem. And you want to solve that problem. There is no ideation problem in this case
as the problem is already defined. This fits neatly into the scratch your own itch category.
- You want to learn by building a project. In this case you need to have an ideation stage to decide
what to build.

Some fallacies while hunting for ideas:
- Someone has already build the thing that I am thinking of building. Analogy between an artist making a replica of a famous work of art.
- Spending too much time thinking about your choices.

